Encryption guide added (#2444)
vividus-framework/vividus: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/tests-configuration.adoc

|The list of HTTP methods containing request body which should be treated as idempotent for retries

|===

> == Sensitive Data Encryption
> 
> It is possible to use variables & strings encrypted with Jasypt. Here's an example of free online encryption service that can be used for this purpose: https://www.devglan.com/online-tools/jasypt-online-encryption-decryption
> 
> === How to encrypt a string using https://www.devglan.com/online-tools/jasypt-online-encryption-decryption service?
> 
> 1. Paste plain text string to encrypt to the corresponding text field
> 2. Set Type of Encryption to "Two Way Encryption (With Secret Text)"
> 3. Enter secret key/text in the corresponding text field. Note that is should not contain specific symbols.
> 4. Click Encrypt
> 5. The resulting encrypted string can be copied from the corresponding field
> 
> === How to use a Jasypt-encrypted string in VIVIDUS?
> 
> 1. Add the secret key/text to the project properties as the value of:
> ----
> system.vividus.encryptor.password=
> ----
> 2. Use the wrapping "ENC()" for any encrypted string. e.g.
> ----
> selenium.grid.password=ENC(cvoah9O4ZxR0vcuUAYx3/4YfT7ZjBPLpzmRc1VFwhyg=)
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Sensitive Data Encryption

VIVIDUS allows to store values of the properties in encrypted form.
https://www.devglan.com/online-tools/jasypt-online-encryption-decryption[Jasypt Online] can be used to perform encryption and decryption operations.

=== How to encrypt a string using https://www.devglan.com/online-tools/jasypt-online-encryption-decryption[Jasypt Online]?

. Paste plain text string to encrypt to the corresponding text field.
. Set Type of Encryption to "Two Way Encryption (With Secret Text)".
. Enter secret key/text in the corresponding text field.
. Click "Encrypt".
. The resulting encrypted string can be copied from the corresponding field.

=== How to use an encrypted string in VIVIDUS?

. Add the secret key/text to the project properties as the value of:
+
[source,properties]
----
system.vividus.encryptor.password=...
----
+
IMPORTANT: This value must be kept secret and must not be committed to version control system.

. Use the wrapping `ENC(...)` for any encrypted property value. e.g.
+
[source,properties]
----
http.auth.password=ENC(cvoah9O4ZxR0vcuUAYx3/4YfT7ZjBPLpzmRc1VFwhyg=)
----
```

|The list of HTTP methods containing request body which should be treated as idempotent for retries

|===

> == Sensitive Data Encryption
> 
> VIVIDUS allows to store values of the properties in encrypted form.
> https://www.devglan.com/online-tools/jasypt-online-encryption-decryption[Jasypt Online] can be used to perform encryption and decryption operations.
> 
> === How to encrypt a string using https://www.devglan.com/online-tools/jasypt-online-encryption-decryption[Jasypt Online]?
> 
> . Paste plain text string to encrypt to the corresponding text field.
> . Set Type of Encryption to "Two Way Encryption (With Secret Text)".
> . Enter secret key/text in the corresponding text field.
> . Click "Encrypt".
> . The resulting encrypted string can be copied from the corresponding field.
> 
> === How to use an encrypted string in VIVIDUS?
> 
> . Add the secret key/text to the project properties as the value of:
> +
> [source,properties]
> ----
> system.vividus.encryptor.password=...
> ----
> +
> IMPORTANT: This value must be kept secret and must not be committed to version control system.
> 
> . Use the wrapping `ENC(...)` for any encrypted property value. e.g.
> +
> [source,properties]
> ----
> http.auth.password=ENC(cvoah9O4ZxR0vcuUAYx3/4YfT7ZjBPLpzmRc1VFwhyg=)
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Sensitive Data Encryption

VIVIDUS allows to store values of the properties in the encrypted form.
VIVIDUS uses Jasypt (Java Simplified Encryption) which provides two-way
encryption mechanism. While performing two-way encryption, apart from feeding
plain-text it's required to feed the secret text (i.e. password) and this secret
text is used to decrypt the encrypted text. The default encryption algorithm is
`PBEWithMD5AndDES`.

=== How to encrypt a string
==== Option 1 (Recommended): using Jasypt CLI

. Download the https://github.com/jasypt/jasypt/releases[latest Jasypt release]
. Unpack the downloaded zip-archive
. Go to `bin` folder
. Run the command perfoming encryption:
+
.Windows:
[source,bat]
----
encrypt.bat input="This is my message to be encrypted" password=MYPAS_WORD
----
+
.Linux/UNIX/macOS:
[source,shell]
----
./encrypt.sh input="This is my message to be encrypted" password=MYPAS_WORD
----
+
where
+
 - `input` - Any string to be encrypted.
 - `password` - Your encryption password.
+
NOTE: `MYPAS_WORD` is a sample password and should be never used, own strong password is required for the encryption.

. Find the encrypted data in `OUTPUT` section
+
.Encryption command output
[source,log]
----
----ENVIRONMENT-----------------

Runtime: Eclipse Adoptium OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 17+35

----ARGUMENTS-------------------

input: This is my message to be encrypted
password: MYPAS_WORD

----OUTPUT----------------------

WVnXhzG704KRZZFYL7hfpA4YoSm8V2F5eNXyr7CRYCichteHvNS3nB23zaI8CuLy

----

TIP: Find more details in http://www.jasypt.org/cli.html[Jasypt CLI Tools documentation]

==== Option 2: using https://www.devglan.com/online-tools/jasypt-online-encryption-decryption[Jasypt Online]

CAUTION: Use this tool at your own risk, since there is a chance of potential leakage of sensitive data

. Paste plain text string to encrypt to the corresponding text field.
. Set Type of Encryption to "Two Way Encryption (With Secret Text)".
. Enter secret key/text in the corresponding text field.
. Click "Encrypt".
. The resulting encrypted string can be copied from the corresponding field.

=== How to use an encrypted string in VIVIDUS

. Add the secret key/text to the project properties as the value of:
+
[source,properties]
----
system.vividus.encryptor.password=MYPAS_WORD
----
+
IMPORTANT: This value must be kept secret and must not be committed to version control system.
+
NOTE: `MYPAS_WORD` is a sample password and should be never used, own strong password is required for the encryption.

. Use the wrapping `ENC(...)` for any encrypted property value. e.g.
+
[source,properties]
----
http.auth.password=ENC(WVnXhzG704KRZZFYL7hfpA4YoSm8V2F5eNXyr7CRYCichteHvNS3nB23zaI8CuLy)
----
```
